style: apply /style-guide pass to models/automations (#2684)
wandb/docs: models/automations/create-automations.mdx

---
title: Overview
description: Create and manage W&B automations to streamline your ML workflows
keywords: ["automations", "Slack notifications", "webhooks", "registry events", "W&B secrets"]
---
import EnterpriseCloudOnly from "/snippets/_includes/enterprise-cloud-only.mdx";

<Info>
<EnterpriseCloudOnly/>
</Info>

> This page gives an overview of how to create and manage W&B [automations](/models/automations), which let you trigger Slack notifications or webhooks in response to project and registry events. Use this overview to understand the prerequisites and high-level workflow before following the detailed instructions in [Create a Slack automation](/models/automations/create-automations/slack) or [Create a webhook automation](/models/automations/create-automations/webhook).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to create and manage W&B [automations](/models/automations), which let you trigger Slack notifications or webhooks in response to project and registry events. Use this overview to understand the prerequisites and high-level workflow, then follow the detailed instructions in [Create a Slack automation](/models/automations/create-automations/slack) or [Create a webhook automation](/models/automations/create-automations/webhook).
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

<Note>
Looking for companion tutorials for automations? 
- [Learn to automatically trigger a GitHub Action for model evaluation and deployment](https://wandb.ai/wandb/wandb-model-cicd/reports/Model-CI-CD-with-W-B--Vmlldzo0OTcwNDQw).
- [Watch a video demonstrating automatically deploying a model to a SageMaker endpoint](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s5CMj_w3DaQ).
- [Watch a video series introducing automations](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD80i8An1OEGECFPgY-HPCNjXgGu-qGO6&feature=shared).
</Note>

## Requirements

> The following requirements apply when creating automations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating automations:
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

- A team admin can create and manage automations for the team's projects, as well as components of their automations, such as webhooks, secrets, and Slack integrations. Refer to [Team settings](/platform/app/settings-page/teams).
- To create a registry automation, you must have access to the registry. Refer to [Configure Registry access](/models/registry/configure_registry/#registry-roles).
- To create a Slack automation, you must have permission to post to the Slack instance and channel you select.

## Create an automation

Create an automation from the project or registry's **Automations** tab. At a high level, to create an automation, follow these steps:

> 1. If necessary, [create a W&B secret](/platform/secrets) for each sensitive string required by the automation, such as an access token, password, or SSH key. Storing these values as secrets keeps credentials out of automation configurations and lets you reuse them safely. Define secrets in your **Team Settings**. Webhook automations most commonly use secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If necessary, [create a W&B secret](/platform/secrets) for each sensitive string required by the automation, such as an access token, password, or SSH key. Secrets let you reuse sensitive strings safely and keeps them out of automation configurations. Define secrets in your **Team Settings**. Webhook automations most commonly use secrets.
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00 with one fix: `and keeps them` → `and keep them` for subject-verb agreement.

1. Configure team-level webhook or Slack integrations to authorize W&B to post to Slack or run the webhook on your behalf. Multiple automations can use a single webhook or Slack integration. Define these actions in your **Team Settings**.
1. In the project or registry, create the automation, which specifies the event to watch for and the action to take (such as posting to Slack or running a webhook). When you create a webhook automation, you configure the payload it sends.

> After you complete these steps, the automation runs on your behalf whenever the specified event occurs in the project or registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete these steps, the automation runs whenever the specified event occurs in the project or registry.
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

> From a line plot in the workspace, you can also create a [run metric automation](/models/automations/automation-events/#run-events) for the metric it shows:

Reviewer: This second procedure might disappear without an H3.

Author: Added two H3 sub-headings in 4992e00: `### Create from the Automations tab` and `### Create a run metric automation from a workspace panel`.

- [Create a webhook automation](/models/automations/create-automations/webhook)

## View and manage automations

> After you create an automation, view and manage it from a project or registry's **Automations** tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View and manage automations from a project or registry's **Automations** tab:
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

- To view an automation's details, click its name.

> - To view an automation's execution history, click its name and select the **History** tab. For more information, see [View an automation's history](/models/automations/view-automation-history).

Reviewer: Nit: Why?

Author: Added a brief reason in 4992e00 — `(which actions ran and whether they succeeded)`.

- To edit an automation, click its **action (<Icon icon="ellipsis" iconType="solid"/>)** menu, then click **Edit automation**.
- To delete an automation, click its **action (<Icon icon="ellipsis" iconType="solid"/>)** menu, then click **Delete automation**.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I wonder if this could be something like Go further?

Author: Renamed `## Next steps` to `## Go further` in this file in 4992e00. Broader rename across sibling files can be a follow-up.
